---
title: "Rigachikun Speaks On Why Goodluck Was Not Voted For By The North In 2015"
date: '2018-11-22'
---
Naija News

Published on 22 November 2018

By Enioluwa Adeniyi

The former chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in Kaduna State, Yaro Makama Rigachikun, has revealed why former President Goodluck Jonathan was not voted for by the north in the 2015 presidential election.

The former PDP chairman while speaking in Kaduna, on Thursday during a solidarity visit by Sanga PDP Stakeholders Forum to the state PDP gubernatorial candidate, Isa Ashiru, claimed that Goodluck, took oath of office twice.

He further explained, “He was sworn in when late Umaru Yar’adua died. He was again sworn-in in 2011 when he won that year’s presidential election. To the Northern establishment, he was sworn in twice, which was in tandem with the constitution.

“To allow the former leader to be sworn in for the third time was against the spirit of the constitution and the Northern establishment would not take that.”

Alhaji Yaro Makama Rigachikun observed that the second reason was the issue of suspicious and distrust because the Northern establishment suspected that the former leader had a hand in Boko Haram.

Rigachikun while reacting to the new book published by Jonathan, said there was the need to tell the world the real reasons the north dumped Jonathan in 2015.

He explained that events later proved that the former leader was not behind the insurgency, adding that the people later realised that Jonathan’s hands was never in Boko Haram.

Alhaji Yaro Makama observed, “The issue of Boko Haram is still very much around us, even President Buhari is still grappling with the issue of insurgency in the north and other parts of the country.”
