---
title: "Gov. Udom Cries Out For Immediate Removal Of CP, Musa Kimo, Says Akwa-Ibom State Is Under Siege"
date: '2018-11-27'
---
Naija News

Published on 27 November 2018

By Busayo Okunloye

Gov. Udom Agrees With State House Of Assembly On Removing State CP

Akwa Ibom state Governor, Udom Emmanuel has raised alarm that his state is under siege and has called for the redeployment of the Commissioner of Police, Musa Kimo.

This is as Naija News reports that the lawmakers of the state house of assembly had earlier sought for the immediate removal of the same.

Emmanuel who just addressed a world press conference in his official residence in Uyo said the police led by the CP, Musa Kimo is threatening the peace of the state by aiding the five sacked lawmakers to take over the State House of Assembly.

He said democracy in the state is being threatened, and called on the CP to be removed from the state this evening.

He said the government had received intelligence report of the plan of the sacked lawmakers who are members of the All Progressive Congress, to take over the house of assembly and the plans were executed supervised by the police.

Gov Udom further stated that the same police that he used state resources to equip is today fighting the state, adding that several petitions to President Buhari and the IGP about the activities of the Police and the sacked lawmakers have been ignored.

He said the security problems initiated by the sacked lawmakers was designed to prevent elections from holding in the state.

He warned that if elections were not held in the state as scheduled, then elections would not hold on a later date.
