---
title: "More House Of Rep Members Dump APC, PDP"
date: '2018-11-29'
---
Naija News

Published on 29 November 2018

By Faderera Falade

All Progressives Congress (APC) and its main opposition, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have lost four of their members in the House of Representatives members today.

The APC lost three of its members while a member dumped the PDP.

The lawmakers announced their resignations in separate letters to the green chamber, which were read on the floor of the house in Abuja by the Speaker, Yakubu Dogara.

The members include; Adekunle Akinlade, representing Egbado South/Ipokia Federal Constituency in Ogun and Muhammed Ajanah, representing Adavi/Okehi Federal Constituency in Kogi defected from the APC to Allied Peoples Movement (APM) and PDP respectively.

Mr Salish Koko, representing Maiyama/Koko-Besse Federal Constituency in Kebbi, dumped the APC and headed for the Social Democratic Party (SDP).

Rabiu Kaugama who represents Mallam Madori/Kaugama Federal Constituency of Jigawa left for the SDP.

In the letters, the lawmakers made references to irreconcilable issues relating to the party primaries as part of the reasons for the resignation and defection.

The legislators said after due consultations with their constituents, it was time for them to part ways with the APC and PDP.

A gale of defection has continued to hit the lower chamber as aftermath of the party primaries.

Many aggrieved members could not get their parties’ tickets for the 2019 elections.

