---
title: "I Have No Personal Issues With Buhari – Saraki Fires Back At Presidency"
date: '2018-09-21'
---
Naija News

Sep 21 2018

By Busayo Okunloye

Saraki Speaks On Why He Has Been On The Buhari’s Critic Lately.

Senate President and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant,  Bukola Saraki has dismissed claims by the Presidency that he is making false and crude statements against the president

Naija News reported how the President’s special assistant on media and publicity Garba Shehu said that Saraki was making ‘Condemnable and extremely derogatory speeches’ in his campaign.

Saraki clearly stated in Bauchi today when he met the state’s delegates ahead of the forthcoming PDP presidential primaries, that he has always spoke on issues and what he believes himself and the PDP will bring to Nigerians.

“We speak about facts, the facts are the facts, there is a lot of poverty in Nigeria. Things have not improved as expected, and we want to provide an alternative so that things will get better. We can make the country much better. It is not a personal issue at all.

it is about making the country better, it is not about ourselves and I am very positive on it.”

“‎As I said here today, today’s world requires a different approach to bring results because our people’s lives need to be improved. It is not about a personal issue with the president, this is what is all about.”
“This is what I want to offer to Nigerians and that is what politics and campaign is all about. I will make my case with Nigerians, and Nigerians will decide who has a better chance of making their lives better,” he said.

The senate president  who said that he came to Bauchi to seek the support of the state delegates to vote for him in the presidential ticket primaries, promised to work for the victory of the party in the state and bring Nigeria to its better days if elected president after winning the party’s ticket.

In his remark, former FCT minister and PDP governorship aspirant in the state, Senator ‎Bala Mohammed described Saraki as one of the finest and dogged democrats in the country.

He disclosed that, Bauchi people have a strong political ties with Saraki’s father, the late Olusola Saraki whom he said has helped many indigenes of the state.

Senator Mohammed therefore promised Saraki, that they will reciprocate the good gesture of his late father to the people of Bauchi State.

He added that as a close ally of one of their sons, the Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, he has the full support of Bauchi delegates for the election.
