---
title: "36 Lagos Lawmakers, Governorship aspirant Obafemi Hamzat, declared support for Sanwo-Olu ahead of APC Governorship primary election"
date: '2018-09-30'
---
1Push.ng

Published on 30 September 2018

By David Chima

It appears Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State might not survive the challenges before him as more political allies in the state have declared support for Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu.

On Saturday, 36 out of the 40 members of the Lagos State House of Assembly endorsed Sanwo-Olu to become the next governorship candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress of Lagos State.

According to Adefunmilayo Tejuoso, the Chairman of the House Committee on Information, Strategy and Security, the decision was taken at a parliamentary meeting of lawmakers which took place at Lateef Jakande auditorium.

The meeting was reportedly chaired by Mudashiru Obasa, the House Speaker, and the statement was signed by the lawmakers.

“The lawmakers stated that they were in agreement with the leadership of the party and the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) which had earlier endorsed Sanwo-olu for the governorship ticket,” the statement by Tejuso read.

Sanwo-Olu appears to be the favourite candidate of the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the council chairmen of the state, and the Mandate Group, a very influential bloc of the ruling party reportedly linked to Tinubu.
Lagos House members endorse Sanwo-Olu

Lagos House members endorse Sanwo-Olu

Mr. Obafemi Hamzat, another contender for the APC governorship ticket in Lagos State, has also stepped down for Mr. Sanwo-Olu.
READ OUR POST:  Intense gunshots between Boko Haram and Nigerian soldiers as the terrorists descended on a military base shooting non-stop for 30minutes

His withdrawal and endorsement of Sanwo-Olu has also added to more problems to the embattled Governor Akinwunmi Ambode.

Hamzat while announcing his decision to step down for Sanwo-Olu told his supporters to vote for Sanwo-Olu in today’s primary election.

“After due consultation with my numerous supporters and in deference to the wise counsel of those I consider my political mentors, I resolved to step down from the governorship race.

“Apart from the fact that I can vouch for his personal integrity, great humility and extraordinary intelligence, Mr Sanwo-Olu is someone I have had close interaction with in the past.

“We have worked closely with Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who was then the Commissioner for Justice and Attorney General of Lagos State.

“Having been part and parcel of the formulation and execution of various policies and programmes that transformed Lagos right from former governors Tinubu and Babatunde Fashola’s administrations, I strongly believe that Sanwo-Olu is equally rooted to fly our party’s flag in the 2019 elections.

“I have no doubt that he is well placed and equipped to take Lagos to greater height, hence my stepping down for him,” Hamzat said.
